The President:
For the past three
and a half years,
we've been fighting our way back
from a historic economic crisis
-- one caused by breathtaking
irresponsibility on the part of
some on Wall Street who treated
our financial system like
a casino.
Not only did that behavior
nearly destroy the financial
system; it cost our
economy millions of jobs,
hurt middle-class families and
left taxpayers holding the bag.
Since then, we've recovered
taxpayer dollars that were used
to stabilize troubled banks.
And we've put in place Wall
Street reform with smarter,
tougher, common sense rules that
serve one primary purpose --
to prevent a crisis like that
from ever happening again.
And yet, for the past two years,
too many Republicans in Congress
and an army of financial
industry lobbyists actually have
been waging an all-out
battle to delay,
de-fund and dismantle
Wall Street reform.
Recently, we've seen why
we can't let that happen.
We found out that a big mistake
at one of our biggest banks
resulted in a $2 billion loss.
While that bank can handle
a loss of that size,
other banks may not
have been able to.
And without Wall Street reform,
we could've found ourselves with
the taxpayers once again on the
hook for Wall Street's mistakes.
That's why it's so important
that members of Congress stand
on the side of reform
-- not against it.
Because we can't afford to
go back to an era of weak
regulation and
little oversight --
where excessive risk-taking on
Wall Street and a lack of basic
oversight in Washington
nearly destroyed our economy.
We can't afford to go back to
that brand of "you're on your
own" economics -- not after the
American people have worked so
hard to come back
from this crisis.
We've got to keep
moving forward.
We've got to finish the job of
implementing this reform and
putting these rules in place.
These new rules say that if
you're a big bank or financial
institution, you now have
to hold more cash on hand so
that if you make a bad
decision, you pay for it --
not the taxpayers.
You have to write out a living
will that details how you'll be
winding down if you do fail.
The new law takes away big
bonuses and paydays from failed
CEOs while giving shareholders
a say on executive salaries.
And for the first time
in our nation's history,
we have in place a consumer
watchdog whose sole job is to
look out for working families by
protecting them from deceptive
and unfair practices.
So unless you run a financial
institution whose business model
is built on cheating consumers
or making risky bets that could
damage the whole economy, you
have nothing to fear from Wall
Street reform.
Yes, it discourages big banks
and financial institutions from
making risky bets with
taxpayer-insured money.
And it encourages them to do
things that actually help the
economy, like extending loans to
entrepreneurs with good ideas;
to middle-class families
who want to buy a home;
to students who want to
pursue a higher education.
That's what Wall Street
reform is all about --
making this economy
stronger for you.
And we're going to keep working
to recover every job loss to the
recession; to build an
economy where hard work and
responsibility are
once again rewarded;
to restore an America where
everyone has a fair shot,
everyone does their fair
share, and everybody plays by
the same rules.
I believe the free market is
one of the greatest forces for
progress in human history; that
businesses are the engine of
growth; that risk-takers and the
innovators should be celebrated.
But I also believe
that at its best,
the free market has never been
a license to take whatever you
want however you can get it.
Alongside our entrepreneurial
spirit and rugged individualism,
America only prospers when we
meet our obligations to one
another and to
future generations.
If you agree with me, let
your Member of Congress know.
Tell them to spend less time
working to undermine rules that
are there to protect the economy
and spend more time actually
working to strengthen
the economy.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.